(air swishing)
In the last video, I showed you this little
problem that we have, is when you refresh it,
what's happening is that we're getting the un-styled
website for just a second, and I want to explain
why that's happening, so as you refresh,
what's happening is that the server is rendering
the first run of the react application,
and then our client side react is actually picking it up
from there, then seeing if there's any updates
that need to happen, and what's happening,
is that on the client, whenever you mount any component
that you want, so when you mount the header, when you mount
the nav, you mount the search bar, you mount the item,
all of those have their own, styled components,
and they all bring their own CSS with them,
when they need to be mounted.
However, with server-side rendering, everything needs to be
sort of prepped, and ready, and fetched, before we
can actually send the data to the browser, because we can't
just say, "Ah, whatever, the CSS will show up when
"it's mounted;" we need the CSS at the point of doing
that initial render, so this is a pretty common problem
that Next.js has solved with both this lifecycle method,
called getInitialProps, which we are going to be coming
back to that quite a bit, in this course,
as well as what's called a Custom Document.
So, if you go to the Next.js document, you can search
for document, _document; it says Custom Document,
it's rendered on the server side, so it's only rendered
on the server side, it is used to change the initial
server side rendered document markup, and it's commonly used
to implement server side rendering and for
CSS in JS libraries like styled components;
that's exactly what we have.
So, if you take a look at the styled components docs,
they say, for Next.js, you need to add a custom document,
which will go ahead and actually fetch the CSS,
before the HTML is sent from the server to the browsers,
so they maintain a little example here, in their pages,
they have an _document.js, which is gonna look
pretty much exactly how we have it on ours;
let me just explain the code that's going on here.
We import the document, a couple other things from Next.js,
then styled components has this thing called a server style
sheet, and what it's going to do, is essentially,
render out your app, and crawl every single component along
the tree, and see if there are any styles that need
to be collected; I like the name of this method,
collectStyles, then it's going to compile all of those
styles into one, and dump it onto the page,
and because getInitialProps will always run before
the render happens, getInitialProps will render
on the server, and if you need to do any data fetching,
or in our case, walk the component tree,
and collect all the styles, that will happen before
the render happens, which in turn, will get sent out
from the browser.
So, that's a pretty simple little fix that we need to do,
we'll go to our pages folder here, we'll create a new
file called _document.js,
and you can either grab this from the example,
with styled components, or you can grab it
from the finished files that I have in the
starter files directory; paste it in there,
the only thing we don't need
is this title, and the reason why we don't need that,
is because we are doing that separately on our page,
as well as, I'm going to show you how to set it
on any page, in the future.
So, we give that a save, we go back to our Sick Fits
application, and it's still happening, let's see if we kill
and restart; I think you need to restart after you do
any of these custom app and custom document ones,
now, if I give it a refresh; okay, see how it's not
doing that anymore?
Because it's collecting all of the styles,
and if we were to view the page source, you'll see that
we have a style tag, and this is all of the CSS
that we have written; that custom document has walked
the component tree, collected all the styles
that are needed, and put them into a style tag;
so, I'm not totally sure why that needs to happen,
but, it does need to happen, so we need a custom,
_document.js, and we are ready to roll;
I'll see you in the next one.